#Risk analysis

## Table of contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Asset categories](#asset-categories)	
  - [Data types](#data-types)	
  - [Communication types](#communication-types)
  - [Access permissions types](#access-permissions-types)
  - [Component types](#component-types)
- [Risk assessment](#risk-assessment)
  - [Risk levels](#risk-levels)
  - [Impact levels](#impact-levels)
  - [Risk matrix](#risk-matrix)

## Introduction	

Risk analysis process results in a Risk Matrix, which is helpful for finding and assessing potential security problems in the project. It is determined by the following factors:

- Impact on the environment (actors) in case of asset compromising 
- Level of vulnerability to attacks
- Significance of related data
- Trust level of 3rd party tools
- Known issues, vulnerabilities and problems

Risk assessment is necessary to identify all possible threats for the project and helpful in visualising possible impact. 

## Asset categories

This section contains mobile-specific list of assets that are potential security risks. They define the security levels for apps and are grouped into four categories:
- Data types
- Communication types
- Access permissions
- Component types

Each of those categories contain a list of assets that are used to assess security risks and define security level.

### Data types

This section contains a list of possible data types that can be processed in the mobile application. Mentioned data types can influence a security level of the app with different impact (see [Impact levels](#impact-levels)).

###### Key data types:
- No data handling (app designed for controlling other - devices/sensors/peripherals)
- User credentials
- Personally identifiable information
- User behavior information
- Public API access data
- Dedicated API access data
- Environment data
- Geolocation data
- Contact data
- Communication data (messages)
- Audiovisual data
- Public data
- Social relation data
- E-commerce data
- Transactions data
- Bank/credit card and financial data
- User access data (passwords manager)

### Communication types

This list contains all possible communication types used in mobile applications, both internal and external. Communication techniques also have strong influence when choosing security and risk level. 

###### Crucial communication types:
- No communication (offline apps)
- Open Internet communication (e.g. HTTP – no encryption needed)
- Encrypted Internet communication (e.g. HTTPS)
- Direct communication between devices (no central server; over network)
- Communication only in LAN (or through the VPN)
- Bluetooth communication (including Wearable devices communication)
- Inter Process Communication (IPC)
- GSM communication (standard phone calls handled by analyzed app)
- SMS communication
- Communication using third party providers

### Access permissions types

This section contains a list of mobile access permissions. Because of differences in mobile operating systems, it includes only keywords (not the exact names) related to device/system elements to which permissions are applied.

Keywords related to **Android** system permissions are listed below:
- INTERNET
- CONTACTS
- ACCOUNTS
- CAMERA
- READ/WRITE EXTERNAL STORAGE
- BLUETOOTH
- ACCESS NETWORK STATE
- VIDEO CAPTURE
- MICROPHONE
- NFC
- CALENDAR
- CONTACTS
- SEND/RECEIVE SMS/MMS
- ALARM
- PHONE CALL
- ACCESS COARSE/FINE LOCATION
- BATTERY STATE
- BIND NOTIFICATION / LISTENER SERVICE
- BODY SENSORS

Keywords related to **iOS** system permissions are listed below
- Bluetooth sharing
- Calendar
- Camera
- Contacts
- Health
- HomeKit
- Location Services
- Microphone
- Motion activity and fitness
- Music/video activity and the media library
- Photos
- Reminders
- Speech recognition

(Purpose strings for permissions can be obtained here: [https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/core_app/protecting_the_user_s_privacy/accessing_protected_resources](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/core_app/protecting_the_user_s_privacy/accessing_protected_resources))

### Component types

Component types section concerns elements used by developers to implement project functionality and business logic. Such elements can be: tools, libraries or SDK components. This type of assets have great influence on the security matters, because they are related directly to the software components. There is no software without bugs or vulnerabilities – according to this rule, risk related to every software component also needs to be verified because it may have crucial influence on the project. 

###### Components that should be included in the risk analysis:

- Analytics engines
- Crash reporting engines
- External SDKs
- External libraries

Also, the platform specific components should be included. Below there is a list that contains components specific for **Android**:
Intents
Content Providers
Services
KeyChain
KeyStore
BroadCast receivers
Intent filters

List placed below shows the risk related components for **iOS**:
- Data Protection
- iCloud
- Keychain

## Risk assessment

Risk assessment is a key element of risk analysis. In this part, reviewer assigns a risk level to all of the assets in the application. It allows to visualise the overall risk related with the project and possible impact on the actors in case of compromising the assets. This section contains description and risk assessment for all assets listed in the [Asset categories](#asset-categories) section.

### Risk levels

Risk levels section contains levels that are used to determine the risk associated with asset's compromise.

We are using four level of risk:
- Low
- Medium
- High
- Very high

***Low*** level means that the risk of compromise is very low. There is no need to use any special/additional security layer to protect the asset, or the asset is public and does not contain any data that can be associated with users.

***Medium*** level concerns assets that are protected on a system level and the risk of data leaks related to the asset is very low or data does not contain any information related to the user or their behaviour.

***High*** risk is related to any kind of asset that contains users’ data and behaviour. Even if there is small risk that this kind of data would be leaked, it contains sensitive information that are very valuable for user or client, therefore it should be treated with special care.

***Very high*** is used when we are considering compromise of data possibly related with many systems, users, clients, institutions or even multi-level security breaches. Best example of assets with critical risk are user credentials. When user credentials become exposed, then attacker can obtain access to user data or system data not only from corrupted system but also from different, unrelated ones. It is caused by users frequently using the same credentials for different services.

### Impact levels
This section contains description of levels used to determine possible impact to two actors: client and user, in case of compromising assets from any categories mentioned in Assets categories section. 

We are also using four levels of impacts:
- Low
- Medium
- High
- Very high

First level of impact, called ****low***, means that compromise of asset with such level does not do any harm to the actors. 
Second level is called ***medium***. If asset with medium level is compromised it can only expose data that already has public access or intruder can not identify users or user behaviour with such data. Leaks of data with medium level impact can only cause small impact on client’s image.
Third level of impact is ***high***. This level is concerning personal identification data. Leaks of data that can allow attackers to identify users, their behaviours or personal/private information can cause large damage to client’s image. Also leaks of such kind of data can lead to very large impact on users. If users notice that their private data is now accessible by some third person, the trust in the client can be lost. This may lead to even worst problems with client’s image and loss of trust on the market.
This kind of data may allow to create a complete profile with the user’s connections, behaviour, interests, habits, weakness etc. If such data leaks intruder can use it to cause real/ physical harm to the user like, find user in real life, steal his money, harass user or commit other crime related to the end user. This may lead to more complex problems, for example, if the attackers can come into possession of such data they can use it to blackmail the client, because information about leak can completely destroy the image of the customer and show him as someone whom the user can not trust at all. 
The last impact level is called ***very high***. Leaks of data and assets concern commerce, money transfers or user connections and relations. This level can expose other systems and reduce the protection level of other services. This can cause loss of data or money not only for users nor systems but it can also lead to complex (even global) security breaches

### Risk matrix

The risk matrix presents a list of the assets with assigned risk and impact levels on individual actors. The risk levels were assigned according to the levels described in the [Risk levels](#risk-levels) section, the impacts were assigned according to the [Impact levels](#impact-levels). Tables located below contain the risk assessment for all assets categories.


<table>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="4" >
    <strong>Data types</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td rowspan="2" >
    <strong>Asset</strong>
   </td>
   <td rowspan="2" >
    <strong>Risk of compromise</strong>
   </td>
   <td colspan="2" >
    <strong>Impact</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    <strong>on user</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
    <strong>on client</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    User credentials
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Personally identifiable information
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    User behavior information
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Public API access data
   </td>
   <td>
    medium/low
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Dedicated API access data
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Environment data (device sensors)
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Geolocation data
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Contact data
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Communication data (messages)
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Audiovisual data
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Public data
   </td>
   <td>
    low
   </td>
   <td>
    low
   </td>
   <td>
    low
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Social relation data
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    E-commerce data
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Transactions data
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Bank/credit card and financial data
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    User access data 
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



<table>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="4" ><strong>Access permissions</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td rowspan="2" >
    <strong>Asset</strong>
   </td>
   <td rowspan="2" ><strong>Risk of compromise</strong>
   </td>
   <td colspan="2" ><strong>Impact </strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>on user</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>on client</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="4" >
    <strong>Android</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    INTERNET
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    CONTACTS
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    ACCOUNTS
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    CAMERA
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    READ/WRITE EXTERNAL STORAGE
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    BLUETOOTH
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    ACCESS NETWORK STATE
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    VIDEO CAPTURE
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    MICROPHONE
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    NFC
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    CALENDAR
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    SEND/RECEIVE SMS/MMS
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    ALARM
   </td>
   <td>low
   </td>
   <td>low
   </td>
   <td>low
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    PHONE CALL
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    PHONE STATE
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    ACCESS COARSE/FINE LOCATION
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    BATTERY STATE
   </td>
   <td>low
   </td>
   <td>low
   </td>
   <td>low
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    NOTIFICATION LISTENER SERVICE
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    BODY SENSORS
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="4" >
    <strong>iOS</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Bluetooth sharing
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Calendar
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Camera
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Contacts
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Health
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    HomeKit
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Location Services
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Microphone
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Motion activity and fitness
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Music and the media library
   </td>
   <td>low
   </td>
   <td>low
   </td>
   <td>low
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Photos
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Reminders
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
   <td>high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Speech recognition
   </td>
   <td>low
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
   <td>medium
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



<table>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="4" >
    <strong>Component types</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td rowspan="2" >
    <strong>Asset</strong>
   </td>
   <td rowspan="2" >
    <strong>Risk of compromise</strong>
   </td>
   <td colspan="2" >
    <strong>Impact</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    <strong>on user</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
    <strong>on client</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="4" >
    <strong>Android</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Intents
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Content Providers
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Services
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    KeyChain
   </td>
   <td>
    low
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    KeyStore
   </td>
   <td>
    low
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    BroadCast receivers
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Intent filters
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="4" >
    <strong>iOS</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Data Protection
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    iCloud
   </td>
   <td>
    low
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
   <td>
    medium
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    Keychain
   </td>
   <td>
    low
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="4" >
    <strong>Common</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
    External libraries
   </td>
   <td>
    very high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
   <td>
    high
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


