# Security requirements

This page contains lists of technical requirements that should be implemented in mobile application for the selected Security level.

## General requirements

The following list is a set of recommended practices to use when developing a mobile application.

*   All external dependencies should be used in latest versions, unless there are no common vulnerabilities in issues
*  [Logs should be disabled](#logs-protection) for all publicly available version of the app 
*   All sensitive data used by the application like backend keys, services/user identificators should not be directly hard-coded and [stored outside the code and the code repository](#backend-keys-handling)
*   The application should be compliant with all protection methods derived from [OWASP Mobile Top 10 ](#owasp-mobile-top-10-requirements)
*   All security standards or algorithms should be implemented with known and well tested libraries (instead of custom solutions)
*   App should be stable
*   All technical protection method should be implemented with common, well defined standards and good practices
*   The application should use only the necessary permissions
*   The application should be in line with the design assumptions – It should not contain any additional, hidden functions
*   Static analysis should not find any bugs, potential problems or security issues
*   Application code should be [obfuscated](#obfuscation) (Android only)
*   Code of the application should be defined based on a specific design (programming) pattern

## Technical requirements for security levels

In this section there is a list of assets related with security levels and technical requirements that should be implemented to secure each of the assets. Each level should be treated as minimal set of requirements that should be implemented. If chosen level does not contain requirements for assets from lower level, those assets should be covered by the lower level requirements.

<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>App level</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Asset</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Requirements</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Notes</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>0</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
    -
   </td>
   <td>
    No additional requirements needed 
   </td>
   <td>low risk – no sensitive data
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td rowspan="10" ><strong>1</strong>
   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>User behavior information</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>No Personal Identification Data</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>Public API access data</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>API keys outside the repository
<li>No hardcoded keys, passwords or identificators inside the source code</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>Basic permissions</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>Permissions</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>User credentials</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>Password should be changed into irreversible figure using Cryptographic hash function generated with Salt for password storing
<li>For login or register form screens Screenshots should be completely disabled on <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span>
<li>Copy feature should be disabled for sensitive data inputs
<li>Password should be validated with minimum password requirements
<li>Email/Login should be validated
<li>Passwords and email should not be stored locally 
<li>If application contains "keep me logged in" feature session token should be encrypted locally 
<li>Correct input fields setup (secure text entry, disabled correction)
<li>Consider disabling custom keyboards on <span style="text-decoration:underline;">iOS</span></li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>Dedicated API access data</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>Keys to the API should be stored outside the repository
<li>No hardcoded keys or ids inside the source code
<li>Access token should be stored with encryption If there is a need to save it locally</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>Geolocation data
<li>Communication data (messages)
<li>Social relation data</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>Encrypted local storage for storing such data
<li>Data should be related to the user by user id not by any Identifiable data
<li>Historical data on backend should be accessed by some access mechanism like access token</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>Encrypted Internet communication (e.g. HTTPS)</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>App should use latest versions of TLS/SSL in HTTPS encryption
<li>SSL needs to be implemented with Certificate Pinning
<li><span style="text-decoration:underline;">iOS</span>: App Transport Security is enabled
<li>It is recommended to disable JavaScript in a WKWebView (<span style="text-decoration:underline;">iOS</span>) and WebView (<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span>; disabled by default) if a website is able to work properly without JavaScript</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>TLS/SSL depends on server capabilities
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>Bluetooth communication</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>It is recommended to use encryption for data transmission</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>Depends on BT device capabilities
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>Inter Process Communication</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>App should not send sensitive data through IPC (like Intents, etc.)
<li>All endpoints of IPC like Broadcast Receivers, Activities, Services, should be secured by custom permission with appropriate protection level
<li>Content Providers should be also secured with custom permissions
<li>It is necessary to set attribute <em>exported</em> to <em>false </em>for Content Provider if it should not be exported</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span> only
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>KeyStore
<li>KeyChain/Keychain</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>It is required to use strongest cryptographic algorithms which are available for supported <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span> version for data encryption and key generation 
<li>Stored data must not be accessible by third-party applications
<li>Keychain on <span style="text-decoration:underline;">iOS</span> should be cleared when the application is reinstalled</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td rowspan="3" ><strong>2</strong>
   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
<li>E-commerce data
<li>Transactions data</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>PII should not be stored locally on device
<li>Transactions and e-commerce data should be stored in encrypted database
<li>Encryption key should be generated from user password with support of key store
<li>Encryption keys should be unique for each user session on device – after logout keys should be deleted</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>Direct communication between devices
<li>Communication only in LAN (or through the VPN)
<li>Bluetooth communication</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>All non-public data that is send through any communication channel should be encrypted with strongest available cryptographic algorithm 
<li>If a well tested solutions based on well known and common cryptographic standard to provide such communication exists, then it should be used
<li>

<a href="#backup-disabling">Disabled backup</a></li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>Contacts
<li>Camera
<li>Microphone</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>All temporary files with video, pictures and sound should be saved in the application cache
<li>Files should be removed when processing is complete
<li>Avoid use of unnecessary permissions
<li>If app is designed to digitize sensitive data using camera, or microphone encrypt file (<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span>) or enable File Data Protection (<span style="text-decoration:underline;">iOS</span>) before saving it locally</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td rowspan="5" ><strong>3</strong>
   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>Bank/credit card data
<li>Money related data
<li>User access data</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>Encryption keys should be unique for each user session on device – after logout keys should be deleted
<li>Database should be cleaned up after logout
<li>Encryption keys should be recreated with new user session
<li>Copy feature should be disabled for sensitive data inputs
<li>
<a href="#backup-disabling">Disabled backup</a></li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>GSM communication
<li>SMS communication
<li>SEND/RECEIVE SMS/MMS
<li>NFC
<li>PHONE CALL</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>Range of access to GSM/SMS/MMS/PHONE CALL data needs to be clearly described and presented to the user
<li>If it is not necessary, data about SMS or phone calls should not be sent to the BACKEND or other external system/application
<li>Data about Phone calls and SMS should not be stored by the app (excluding the system Content Providers designed to handling such kind of data)
<li>Only necessary permissions should be used inside the app to access the data</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span> only
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>E-commerce data
<li>Transactions data
<li>Enterprise data
<li>Military data
<li>Bank/credit card data
<li>Money related data
<li>User access data</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>Data such as enterprise/military/credentials should not be kept in local storage
<li>All data should be encrypted using the encryption keys generated from user Password
<li>Encryption algorithms should be based on well known and verified algorithms like e.g. AES-256
<li>Access credentials should not be sent through the Internet
<li>Backend should contain Intrusion Detection System that will automatically block the mobile app account/user if detect untypical behaviour
     </li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>VPN communication
<li>VLAN communication</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>All connections with the system backend server should be encrypted and established through the VPN tunnel directly to the backend network
<li>Backend server should not be accessible from the Internet</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><ul>

<li>Root access
<li>Jailbreak</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td><ul>

<li>Application should detect root permissions on device and block all functionality on such device
<li>Root should be reported directly to the backend server
<li>Blocking of the rooted devices should be performed on server side
<li><span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span>: It is recommended to use more advanced obfuscators than Proguard to make obfuscation process more complex than default one</li></ul>

   </td>
   <td>Critical risk, very important data that may affect global population – root access introduce too many security breaches and significantly decrease protection level
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Requirements description

Requirements description section includes short description of technical methods of protection used to secure assets mentioned in 
[previous section](#technical-requirements-for-security-levels).

All of them are based on _[Mobile Security Testing Guide](https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg)_ by The OWASP Foundation. It is a comprehensive manual for mobile app security testing and reverse engineering and should be treated as a reference point for all requirements described below. It is recommended to read at least chapters related to general and platform-specific mobile security before starting work on a mobile application review.

### Encrypted HTTP communication

To protect HTTP communication between mobile application and backend servers it is recommended to use HTTPS protocol ([RFC 2660](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2660)). HTTPS implementation used in the project should support fairly latest version of TLS/SSL standard ([RFC 5246](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5246)) which stands base of the encryption in HTTPS. For properly handled encryption backend server should have disabled support of non-encrypted communication using standard HTTP. For <span style="text-decoration:underline;">iOS</span> App Transport Security should be enabled without any exceptions.

If the application uses third-party networking framework, it is required to use well-known and well-tested library (e.g. OkHttp, Alamofire) in latest version. This allows to avoid many of potential bugs and security breaches in case of custom implementation of HTTP/HTTPS protocol. Also, TLS/SSL standard is commonly used for handling encrypted communication over the Internet.

The last element necessary for correct implementation of HTTPS on client side is certificate pinning ([RFC 7469](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7469)). Certificate pinning consist in joining the fingerprints of SSL certificates (public key) used by server to the client app code. HTTP client on client app should be able to verify all TLS/SSL connections and its certificates fingerprints. If fingerprint is different than expected (hardcoded one) connection should be refused. This will prevent Man-in-the-middle attacks.

### Screenshot disabling

<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span>

The screenshot mechanism in Android is sensitive to data leakage. This data can leak because screenshots with sensitive data are saved to graphic files and stored on local storage and/or can be copied to the system clipboard. In such case the file with the data becomes publicly available for all application installed on the device. This means that all hostile applications can read such a file and send it to the attacker. To prevent leaking, screenshots should be disabled for each screen of the application that may contains sensitive data (e.g. user registration form, login screen, user profile screen, etc.).

<span style="text-decoration:underline;">iOS</span>

It is not possible in iOS, but on the other hand if the app shows sensitive data, it is strongly recommend to hide/blur them in an application switcher.

### User dictionary protection

User dictionary and keyboard caching is a common source of leaks of sensitive data like user passwords. Incorrect configuration of input fields in mobile system can cause the system to store user credentials in user dictionary.. According to above it is crucial to setup correct input types for all input fields in the application and validate correctly the data that can go through this fields to the system.

### Backup disabling

In <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span> Manifest there is attribute called _allowBackup_. It is responsible for enabling or disabling backup of the application using ADB. Unfortunately, if backup is enabled it may lead to vulnerability related with copying the apps data to other devices. In order for this auto backup feature to work it is necessary to use application in debug mode. This mean that this version is probably used only by developers locally. Another possibility to use this feature is to run the application on system with Root access – this scenario is more possible for production builds and this is the most likely scenario for attackers.

On <span style="text-decoration:underline;">iOS</span> there is also a risk that sensitive user data stored by the app may accidentally leak through the backup, but only when the app insecurely stores sensitive data. For Keychain items there exists the _kSecAttrAccessibleWhenPasscodeSetThisDeviceOnly_ attribute, which means these items can be decrypted only if the backup is restored to backed up device. You can also use the _NSURLIsExcludedFromBackupKey_ and _CFURLIsExcludedFromBackupKey_ file system properties to manually exclude files and directories from backups. It is recommended to review the data that is in the backed up files and folders for sensitive data.

### Logs protection

All logging tools should be disabled on all publicly available versions of the application (e.g. production, beta) – it is recommended to keep logs enabled only on debug version of the app so this one that are signed with debug key and use only by developers.

### User credential handling

It is very important to protect user credentials. Very often users provide the same credentials for many online services. This is a very bad practice but developers need to be aware that this is the fact. This knowledge should lead developers to create secure credential handling mechanism. 

First rule of secure credentials handling in case of mobile devices is to try to avoid storing credentials in local storage. Credentials should be validated and immediately sent through the [secure communication channel](#encrypted-http-communication) to the backend server for further processing (if mobile app is connected with any dedicated backend server). 

If the mobile app is not connected with backend server or if it is necessary to store credentials locally, they should be converted to irreversible form. This rule is required especially to any kind of passphrases that users need to use or access the app. Right after validation, password should be converted to a hash (also called digest) using [cryptographic hash function](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MfZwhPOaRTsA6GNzWCX5dVccA7Wi_f6YyArrDnChOqY/edit#heading=h.9rkcngnr1r6l). Only such irreversible digest can be stored locally. This will make the password safe because there is no mathematical way to retrieve initial value from digest created using hash function. So, even if the database with credential will leak the attacker will get only the hash of the password. However there are two common attacks that can be performed on the password hash if an attacker comes in its possession: [brute force attack](#brute-force-attack) and [Rainbow tables attack](#rainbow-tables-attack).

### Brute force attack

There is no way to retrieve the original password from the digest, but if the attacker gets into the possession of the digest, he can try to find the same digest. To find it the attacker needs to generate the random set of characters, put into the same cryptographic hash function and compare the result with the original digest. The operation needs to be repeated until the result digest will be equal to original one. This method is called _brute force. _This method is very time consuming because of the operations that need to be repeated thousands of times until the randomly generated charset will be equal to the original password. So to make this attack inefficient it is very important to add some restriction for user passwords and properly validate it. Password should have at least 8 characters and contain at least one capital letter, one special character and one number. Of course number of mentioned characters can be increased. Also number of the total characters in the password can be increased. This restriction will increase the time that attacker can spent in order to find the original password with brute force attack.

### Rainbow tables attack

Rainbow tables attack is similar to brute force, but instead of using randomly generated password or dictionary attacker uses a set of well known pairs of password and hash codes. This set of pairs is called rainbow table. This method is much faster than brute force attack, because there is no need to compute hash codes for all possible inputs. It requires only the comparison of already generated hash codes with the original one.

To make password (and its digest) resistant against this kind of attack, _Salt_ need to be used. Salt is a randomly generated additional value that should be added to each charset that is passed as input to the [cryptographic hash function](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MfZwhPOaRTsA6GNzWCX5dVccA7Wi_f6YyArrDnChOqY/edit#heading=h.9rkcngnr1r6l). Salt can be public and it does not reduce the level of security. The only task of the Salt is to protect the digest against Rainbow tables attack.

Rainbow tables do not work against passwords that contain symbols outside the range presupposed, or that are longer than those precomputed by the attacker. However, tables can be generated that take into account common ways in which users attempt to choose more secure passwords, such as adding a number or special character. Because of the sizable investment in computing processing, rainbow tables beyond fourteen places in length are not yet common. So, choosing a password that is longer than fourteen characters may force an attacker to resort to brute-force methods.

### Cryptographic hash function

Cryptographic hash function is a mathematically irreversible function which for any input of any size can generate fixed size output. Outputs called hash value, hash code or digest is unambiguous representation of specific input. Even if there is no way to retrieve the original input form the hashcode the hash function can be compromised. If there is a proof that for two different inputs function gives same result the function is compromised. This situation is called collision. In such case the hash function shouldn't be use for cryptographic purposes. So it is forbidden to use such hash function like: MD4, MD5, SHA1. It is recommended to use the function like SHA2-256, SHA-512 and the best choice is to user SHA-3 (not commonly used currently).

### IPC endpoints protection

IPC also known as Inter Process Communication is the method of passing data between different process inside the same operating system. Such communication can be performed between different processes of the same application or between completely different application.

<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span>

In Android to pass the data using IPC mechanism app should use an object called Intent. Intent is a data package that contains description of the target, description of the data and the data itself. Such Intent is sent to the system using Android SDK and is handled by the OS. Then the OS sends such broadcast to all applications, services and processes, which are registered for this kind of event. The mechanism which allows such registration is called Intent Filter. It is a very simple Android data protection mechanism which allows for reduction of the number of applications that can receive the specific broadcast. Same intent filter can be placed in hostile application. This allows to receive all Intents with the data by the hostile app which now can send it directly to the attacker. There is even no root need to achieve that.

To protect communication between processes developer need to follow two general rules. First rule is to avoid putting any sensitive data inside the Intent. Second one is to protect each application components related with Intents (Activities, Services, BroadCast Receivers, etc.) with [Custom permissions.](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/permissions/defining.html) Such custom permissions provide restrictions that only endpoints assigned with correct definition of the permission will get the Intent. If the custom permission is defined with correct [protection level](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/R.styleable.html#AndroidManifestPermission_protectionLevel) the system will ensure that the Intent will get only the permitted application. This mechanism will prevent leaks of sensitive data to hostile application through the Intent and IPC endpoints. The custom permissions system should be also used with Content providers inside the app.

<span style="text-decoration:underline;">iOS</span>

iOS does not support Inter Process Communication.

### Data storage protection

All sensitive data that need to be stored locally should be encrypted. Encryption of such data should be performed based on well known and tested cryptographic tools with the use of highest [cryptographic standards](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MfZwhPOaRTsA6GNzWCX5dVccA7Wi_f6YyArrDnChOqY/edit#heading=h.o6bm45st0gso).

Detailed description and recommendations can be found in _[Mobile Security Testing Guide](https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg)_ by The OWASP Foundation in related chapters: _Data Storage on <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span>_ and _Data Storage on <span style="text-decoration:underline;">iOS</span>_.

### Encryption keys management

In order to secure the level of data encryption properly, it is necessary to manage the cryptographic keys in a proper way. These keys are used to encrypt and decrypt data while processing. The most important requirement for cryptographic keys is that the value is generated on the basis of information provided directly by the user. Moreover, that information must be known only to the user. This applies primarily to applications and systems that contains user's authentication mechanisms. The password gathered from the user should then be converted to a non-reversible form using a shortcut function. The Password-Base Encryption standard aka PBE ([RFC 2898](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2898.txt)) may be helpful. This password can be used as a key to encrypt AES.

Encryption and decryption is quite a time consuming process. Decrypting at startup of all data stored locally could adversely affect User experience. In order to avoid this problem you can use the Master key. The application generates a pseudo-random Master Key. It is then encrypted with the user's mentioned and converted user password. Encrypted in that way Master Key can be stored in an unencrypted database locally on the device. Then, when the application starts and the user enters a password, only the Master Key is decrypted. Then, decrypted Master key is kept only in memory and used to decrypt small portions of data when needed. This approach introduces an additional layer of protection and accelerates the decryption process.

However, care must be taken to ensure that the primary key (e.g. user password) is never stored in the local memory of the device. Writing an encrypted key on the same device as encrypted data makes encryption useless.

If the application does not use user authentication or is unable to gather password value from the user each time the application is started (for example, because of the _keep-me-logged-in_ feature), generate the key using available secure system tools.

For <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span> systems this is the [Android KeyStore](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/keystore.html). It allows you to safely generate and store a cryptographic key. Unfortunately, it is available from the Android API 18 and only from the API 23 version has been adapted to modern standards (hardware support, AES-256 key generation support).

For <span style="text-decoration:underline;">iOS</span> use [Keychain Services](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/certificate_key_and_trust_services/keys/storing_keys_in_the_secure_enclave) and Apple CommonCrypto framework. It also allows you to safely generate and store a cryptographic key.

You should also note that the new encryption keys should be always generated for different users and removed after the close of each user session ([logout](#data-wiping-on-logout)).

### Cryptography requirements

There are two basic types of encryption:

*   Asymmetric
*   Symmetric

Asymmetric cryptography ([RFC 5959](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5959)) is based on certificates and two different keys used to encryption and decryption. These keys are very often called as key pair because of their strong mathematical relationship. One of the mentioned keys is publicly known to everyone in the world. This key can be used to encrypt the data. Decryption of such data can be performed only with use of the second of mentioned keys. This keys is called as private key. As the name stands, this key should be kept in secret and should be used only by authorized receiver of data. This kind of encryption is used in SSL communication. Currently most used standard of asymmetric cryptography is RSA standard ([RFC 8017](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8017)). This standard is recommended if the developer wants to use the asymmetric cryptography in their application. Despite the fact that RSA is currently considered as safe, it is no recommended type of cryptography for handling encrypted data on mobile devices. It is not recommended, because Asymmetric algorithms are much slower than Symmetric ones. This is because more time is necessary for generation and handling keys.

Recommended type for encryption/decryption mobile data is Symmetric cryptography. This type in contrast to asymmetric assumes the existence of one key that is used for both: encryption and decryption. This key should be provided by the user and should be kept in secret because only this one key allows to get the decrypted data. Disclosure of this key causes a serious breach of security because data can be decrypted by anyone who knows of the key.

Most recommended type of standard of symmetric encryption is Advanced Encryption Standard aka AES ([RFC 3394](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3394#section-2.2)). AES is currently considered as most secure encryption algorithm. To ensure the highest security level AES need to be used in correct encryption mode and with the correct key length. This standard specifies several key lengths: 128, 192, 256 bit. It is recommended to use 256 bit keys. Recommended mode that AES should be used is Galois Counter Mode aka GCM ([NIST 800-38D](http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-38d.pdf), [RFC 5288](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5288)). GCM mode is a mode of key usage in encryption process in AES. It is recommended because of its efficiency and performance. It provides both the protection of integrity and the authenticity of the data.

To avoid any bugs in implementation of cryptographic standards, it is required to use well known and tested tools. For <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span> there is a library called [BouncyCastle](https://www.bouncycastle.org) and for <span style="text-decoration:underline;">iOS</span> there is an official Apple's [CommonCrypto](https://developer.apple.com/security/) framework (as well as its wrappers like [RNCryptor](https://github.com/RNCryptor/RNCryptor)), but [CryptoSwift](https://github.com/krzyzanowskim/CryptoSwift) is recommended as well. They are well known libraries which contain implementations of all common cryptographic standards.

### Obfuscation

Obfuscation is a technique that makes source code of the application less readable and more difficult to understand for humans. It is very important to obfuscate source code of the application in order to increase time that possible attacker spends on analysing source code retrieved as a result of reverse engineering process. If application is not obfuscated, the source code retrieved in reverse engineering process can expose security mechanisms, issues or even security breaches to an attacker. Then the attacker can use such information to find more issues and obtain sensitive data from the app/system. Obfuscated source code can hide such possible issues or security techniques used in the app and it can increase time needed for the app analysis.

### Backend keys handling

All keys, identificators, user credentials, access tokens required to access to any kind of APIs or backend servers should be treated as sensitive data. All sensitive data can not be found directly in the source code under any circumstances. If it is necessary to put this kind of data into the app it should be performed on build phase and it should be injected automatically by the Continuous Integration tool from the encrypted resources sets of this tool.

### OWASP Mobile Top 10 requirements

Application should be compliant with all relevant requirements arising from [OWASP Mobile Top 10 List](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Mobile_Security_Project#tab=Top_10_Mobile_Risks). The list contains most critical and common issues that can be found in mobile applications during the current year. The list is being updated once every two years.

### Root/jailbreak detection

All commonly used mobile operating systems like Android and iOS are based on Linux kernel. Because of that they are using the Linux-based security model based on users and assess groups. In simplistic terms, this model consists in limiting access to system resources by users.So, when app is installed the new user is been created. This new user/app gets all requested permissions and the app has access only to this resources that it request and not more. The app also do not has access to private resources of other users/apps. It is very good designed security model which very well isolates data and application activity. Unfortunately all security restrictions resulting from this model can be skipped. To skip these protection mechanisms in the system, one needs to install an app called Superuser (<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Android</span>) or jailbreak <span style="text-decoration:underline;">iOS</span>. This means that this particular application has access to the root account and it is above all system restriction. This means that other applications, including hostile ones can user this Superuser app/account to get access to private data restricted for other apps. This means it is very important to detect if such application is installed in the system. Then it is very important to report this fact to the backend of considered system. It is important due to the fact that devices with root access are high risk. Such devices should be treated with special care by the backend-server to reduce possibility of any violation.

### Proper system permission handling

The most important rule related to handling permissions is "The Principle of Least Privilege". This principle states that your application should use just enough permissions and privileges to do its job and no more. For example, if your application needs access to read files from local storage, it should not request for permission to write to the local storage. If the application does not need to have access to the Internet connection, do not request such permission and so on. 

### Intrusion Detection System

Intrusion Detection System (IDS) is the system or part of the system that monitors for suspicious or malicious activity in the monitored system. Any detected system violation is reported directly to the administrators. Additionally, IDS can undertake some steps preventing from that action. In order to prevent these action IDS can take some action for suspicious endpoint, e.g. increase response time for each request, change database to fake one, or totally block the device/user/app. Such system should be more like part of the backend server but it is very important to have such functionality with systems with mobile apps. 

### Data wiping on logout

A frequent reason for leakage of sensitive information is improper data removal from device storage after logging out. Standard deletion process in operating systems do not remove all file data physically from the disk. After user or OS remove a file it is not visible in the file viewer, but the data still exists on the storage until some other app creates a new file in the same place – removing the already existing data from the previous application. This means that if the attacker gets physical access to the device it is very probable that he will be able to get access also to the removed data. First thing that will protect sensitive data against such attacks will be to [store application data encrypted](#data-storage-protection). Next part of proper data wiping is to remove all existing encryption keys from the system, eliminating all possibilities of decrypting existing files with application data. The last step of proper data wiping will be to remove existing files. This will protect the removed data against restoring removed files physically. 
