# Dictionary

* _<ins>Access/User permissions</ins>_ — protection system used in mobile Operating Systems for granting access to different system/device resources, like Internet, GPS, Bluetooth, NFC, etc.

* _<ins>Actor</ins>_ — a person which may be influenced by the system or system outputs.
* _<ins>API</ins>_ — Application Programming Interface — set of methods used as mediator between separated parts of the system like between Mobile app ↔ Backend server. In this example API is the list of endpoints of the backend.
* _<ins>Asset</ins>_ — element which is used or processed by the system to meet project assumptions, e.g. data, tools, system resource; asset is usually associated with risk.
* _<ins>Compromise</ins>_ — expose vulnerabilities of the system element.
* _<ins>Credentials</ins>_ — set of user data (usually pair) used to authenticate user identity and grant access to associated resources. Most common pair of data used as user credentials are username and password.
* _<ins>Deobfuscators</ins>_ — software used to reverse obfuscation process; it is one basic tools used in Reverse Engineering.
* _<ins>Dynamic analysis</ins>_ — process of testing project's security by performing various attacks, eg. memory dumping, man-in-the-middle attack, browsing data driectory.
* _<ins>Impact</ins>_ — severity of consequences after asset have been leaked.
* _<ins>Memory dump</ins>_ — process of extracting stored data from running device or application.
* _<ins>Obfuscation</ins>_ — technique of creating source or machine code to make it harder to understand while keeping its semantics intact.
* _<ins>Personal Identification Data</ins>_ — set of data that allows identification of user identity e.g. email, address, phone number, etc.
* _<ins>Relative estimation</ins>_ — estimation of time required to complete a task that does not provide specific time unit, but a comparison to other tasks being a part of the process.
* _<ins>Risk</ins>_ — potential to lose some resources processed by the system.
* _<ins>Risk Matrix</ins>_ — method of presenting risk and impact levels of application's assets.
* _<ins>SDK (Software Development Kit)</ins>_ — set of tools that allow software creation for certain platform or framework.
* _<ins>Static analysis</ins>_ — process of testing implementation of project's security performed either via dedicated tool or by manually reading through code and configuration files.
* _<ins>Third Party Providers</ins>_ — tools created by the other/external software companies, not directly involved in the development process of analysed app, where in most cases we have no way of changing used implementation to improve its security.
* _<ins>Quick wins</ins>_ — list of small fixes that can improve stability or security of the application with most critical problems, they should be treated as a temporary solution, not a final one.
* _<ins>User profiling</ins>_ — process of gathering all information about the user that helps to better describe and define user or its behaviour.